Advisory to dormitory operators - Additional measures in line with Phase 2 (Heightened Alert)
Issued on 17 May 2021

Additional Measures in line with Phase 2 (Heightened Alert)

To better protect our migrant workers (MWs) living in dormitories from being exposed to COVID-19 in the community, the Ministry of Manpower will implement additional measures for them from 17 May 2021. These measures are in response to the community measures introduced on 14 May for Phase 2 (Heightened Alert). It is important that dormitory operators continue to ensure good Safe Living Measures (SLM) are practised in the dormitories.

Suspension of Safe Rest Day Visits to Recreation Centres
Visits to the Recreation Centres for Safe Rest Days will be suspended temporarily until further notice. We are currently exploring arrangements to allow visits to Recreation Centres in a safe and controlled manner during this Phase of heightened alert and will update in due course. This measure is to mitigate the risk of them being exposed to possible infection and subsequently infecting others in their dormitories. MWs will still be allowed to carry out essential errands, including reporting sick if they are unwell. MWs who are found to have acted irresponsibly may face further actions such as having their work passes revoked.

Use of Communal Dormitory Facilities
In line with the national measures during this period, all the gyms, beer gardens and communal dining facilities within the dormitories will need to be closed, and canteens can only offer takeaway services (i.e. no dining in). MOM will step up enforcement on the compliance to Safe Management Measures during this period.
Ensure that all activities within your dormitories are to be capped at the permissible group size of up to two persons. You should remind your residents to continue to adhere to the appropriate Safe Management Measures within your dormitories.

No Change to Work, RRT and Vaccination Appointments
There will be no changes to the work arrangements for your residents. They will be able to continue to go to work if they have a green AccessCode. Employers have been reminded to continue to arrange dedicated transport arrangements for your residents, at staggered pick-up and drop-off timings to and from the worksites.
Your residents will also be allowed to leave their dormitories to attend their Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) and vaccination appointments. Dormitory operators are required to ensure that your residents adhere to their assigned groupings, to restrict intermixing.

Responsibilities as dormitory operators
Ensure that Safe Living Measures are enforced and adhered to, including, but not limited to the following measures:
Good layer segregation with residential floors or layers, to restrict intermixing.
Consistent cleaning and disinfection of high-touch surfaces and communal areas.
Staggered pick-up and drop off timings, especially during peak hours.
Remind your residents not to go to work if they feel unwell and seek medical care. Inform your residents to comply with the Infection Prevention Control (IPC) Measures, including:
Dos	Don’ts
Wear a mask correctly, covering nose and mouth at all times.
Maintain good personal hygiene, including washing their hands with soap and water frequently.
Use hand sanitizers after coming into contact with high touch areas, such as ATMs.
Maintain 1 metre safe distance.
Seek medical help if they are feeling unwell, via telemedicine on FWMOMCareApp. Inform the dormitory operator or employer to provide a dedicated transport to the regional medical centre. For emergencies, call 995.
Do not intermix with other MWs working in different zones at your worksite or residing in other floors or layers in the dormitories.
Do not go to work when unwell.
Employers are responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of your residents’ well-being. You should continue to work with employers and make the necessary arrangements to ensure that your residents are given proper food during this period. Dorms with mini-mart operations should prepare to support MWs by ensuring sufficient stock of daily essentials during this period. Mini-marts should not take advantage and increase prices.
If your residents need access to physical remittance services, inform the Forward Assurance and Support Team (FAST) so that they can assess how best to facilitate this for your residents.
As this may be a difficult period for your residents, we encourage that you continue to engage your residents to provide them with emotional and mental support. You may refer to Annex A for more information on the support you can provide to your residents. If you find your resident(s) in emotional distress, please encourage them to call these helplines for help:
Migrant Workers’ Centre: 6536 2692 (24/7)
HealthServe:  3157 4460 (Call-back service)
Hear4U Whatsapp: 6978 2722 (Tamil) | 6978 2723 (Bengali) | 6978 2724 (Mandarin) | 6978 2725 (English)
During this period, we will also be disseminating care packs, including masks and hand sanitisers to the MWs. For the dorm operators at FEDA dorms, it will be delivered to you from 19 May 2021 onwards. As for the dorm operators at non FEDA dorms, we will inform you the collection details once the care packs are ready for dissemination.
For further queries, please contact us at www.mom.gov.sg/efeedback.
Thank you for supporting us in our fight against COVID-19.