1
UPDATED AS OF 15 MAY 2021
FAQS FOR MANAGEMENT CORPORATIONS (MCSTs) AND MANAGING 
AGENTS (MAs) 
Convening of Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
Q1. When should a MCST hold the next annual general meeting?
A1. Under section 27(1) of the Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 
(BMSMA), a MCST shall hold the second or subsequent annual general meeting 
(AGM) in each calendar year and not more than 15 months from the last preceding 
AGM.
* Under Section 26(1) of BMSMA, the owner developer shall hold the first AGM of MCST latest by the 
13th month from the date of constitution of MCST.
Q2. Can MCSTs conduct AGMs via electronic means? 
A2. MCSTs may do so. Please refer to the circular and guidance notes, dated 
7 April 2021, issued by BCA at https://go.gov.sg/bca-circular-e-general-meeting.
Q3. What must a subsidiary proprietor (SP) do if he/she wishes to stand for 
election of council member in a general meeting conducted via electronic means? 
A3. If an SP wishes to be nominated to stand for the election of council member, 
we encourage him/her to send his/her name by writing or email to the Secretary of 
MCST at least 48 hours before the start of the meeting. 
Alternatively, he/she may attend the general meeting via electronic means and inform 
the Chairperson of the meeting of the intention to be nominated for election of council 
member.
Q4. How does an MCST go about arranging for an AGM conducted by 
electronic means? Will BCA recommend any vendor for this purpose? 
A4. The MCST should refer to the circular and guidance notes, dated 7 April 2021, 
issued by BCA (https://go.gov.sg/bca-circular-e-general-meeting). The MCST should 
also engage or appoint a vendor who can provide the services of conducting the AGM 
via electronic means, which can meet the requirements set in the guidance note. 
BCA does not recommend or restrict the type or group of vendors whom MCSTs can 
engage or appoint for this purpose.2
Q5. Can an MCST hold a physical AGM?
A5. An MCST can hold a physical AGM with no more than 50 persons attending the 
meeting in person together, or such number of persons who can be accommodated at 
the venue where there is at least one metre safe distancing between any two 
individuals, whichever is lower. MCSTs conducting physical AGMs must comply with 
the relevant Safe Management Measures (SMMs) as laid out in the circular and 
guidance notes, dated 7 April 2021, issued by BCA (https://go.gov.sg/bca-circular-egeneral-meeting).
Depending on the venue size, the attendance cap could be lower than 50 persons in 
order to comply with the SMMs. For AGMs expecting to have an attendance that 
exceeds 50 persons or the number of persons that can be accommodated at the venue 
in compliance with the SMMs, MCSTs are advised to conduct the meetings by 
electronic means.
Attendees must maintain at least 1 metre safe distancing between other attendees at 
all times during the AGM. Attendees must wear masks at all times during the AGM.
Attendees must minimise socialising among one another at all times during the AGM. 
Socialising before or after the AGM should also be discouraged. 
Q6. If MCST expects an attendance of more than 50 persons, can MCST 
conduct the AGM via both electronic means and physical meeting? 
A6. For AGMs expecting to have an attendance that exceeds 50 persons or the 
number of persons that can be accommodated at the venue in compliance with the 
safe management measures, MCSTs are advised to conduct the meetings by 
electronic means. Please refer to A4.
MCST should take note of the real risk that more than 50 attendees will turn up at the 
physical location. When such situation arises, the MCST will be faced with the 
quandary of allowing more than 50 attendees in the meeting and breaching the 50 pax 
cap in the Control Order. The MCST may also find it difficult to handle a crowd larger 
than it had anticipated, and may have difficulties adhering to the safe management 
measures (such as at least 1 metre distancing between 2 individuals, due to the area 
of the meeting location).
Further, if the MCST has to turn away attendees, the MCST may breach the rights of 
the attendees, who are subsidiary proprietors (“SPs”), to participate in the 
meeting. This will expose the MCST to possible challenges by the SPs that the 
proceedings of the general meeting are not proper or that the SPs are denied the right 
to vote at the meeting.
Q7. Besides AGM, can an MCST or management Council hold any other types 
of meetings in person?3
A7. The MCST can hold physical extraordinary general meetings, with no more than 
50 persons attending the meeting in person, or such number of persons who can be 
accommodated at the venue where there is at least one metre safe distancing between 
any two individuals, whichever is lower. This arrangement can also apply to physical 
council meetings held by management councils. 
MCSTs and management councils conducting physical meetings must comply with 
the relevant Safe Management Measures (SMMs), including SMMs in the COVID-19 
(Temporary Measures) (Control Order) Regulations. For more information, you may 
wish to refer to the circular and guidance notes, dated 7 April 2021, issued by BCA 
(https://go.gov.sg/bca-circular-e-general-meeting).
For meetings expecting to have an attendance that exceeds 50 persons or the number 
of persons that can be accommodated at the venue in compliance with the SMMs, 
MCSTs are advised to conduct the meetings by electronic means.
Safe Management Measures [For the Period of 16 May to 13 June 2021 – both 
dates inclusive]
Q8. Can MCST continue to allow indoor sports facilities to be opened?
A8. All indoor gymnasiums and indoor fitness studios are to be closed till 13 
June 2021, unless low intensity physical activities, sports and exercises are 
conducted , where all participants and instructors are wearing masks at all times, and 
where there is no sharing of any common equipment. These are activities that can be 
done with mask on at all times such as Yoga, Pilates, stretching exercises, Tai Chi, 
etc. There may have to be some modification to how it is done, e.g. without the use of 
equipment, during this period of time.
Participants, instructors and staff also have to adhere to a more stringent set of safe
management measures (SMMs). No facilities will be allowed to offer weight, strength 
or resistance training of any form, and/or provide equipment for such training, as these 
are associated with strenuous activities. Other indoor facilities similar to gym and 
studio settings that remain in operation are to modify their activities to be in line with 
the more stringent SMM.
For indoor sports facilities such as sports hall, swimming pool and squash court 
are to be closed till 13 June 2021, unless low intensity physical activities, sports and 
exercises are conducted , where all participants and instructors are wearing masks at 
all times, and where there is no sharing of any common equipment. For other indoor 
sports such as basketball, badminton, table tennis and volleyball playing 
indoors, these activities have to be changed to low intensity with masks on in a group 
of no more than 2 persons (i.e. 1v1). While practice drills may still be possible, 
competitive sports will typically be high intensity and if allowed to proceed would put 
participants at risk of flouting the law. Therefore, we advise MCSTs to ensure that 
competitive sports do not take place and masks are worn at all times. MCSTs need to 
ensure that the residents using these facilities observe and comply with the safe 
management measures (SMMs) as laid out in the circular and guidance notes, dated 4
14 May 2021, issued by Sports SG. MCSTs can refer to the latest SMM advisory 
issued by Sports SG at https://www.sportsingapore.gov.sg/Newsroom/MediaReleases/2021/May/Further-Stricter-Safe-Management-Measures-For-Sport-AndPhysical-Exercise-,-a-,-Activity
Q9. How should the MCST compute the maximum number of persons who 
can use a sports facility at any one time?
A9 Sports facilities (e.g. hard courts, swimming pools) should have capacity limits 
to avoid crowdedness and minimise the risk of large clusters forming. Refer to table 
below.
Q10. The development has 3 separate swimming pools. Can the MCST 
aggregate or add up the areas of the 3 swimming pools to compute the
maximum number of persons who can use the swimming pools?
A10. No. The maximum number of persons who can use each swimming pool shall 
be computed from the usable area of each individual swimming pool.
Q11. How is the usable area defined for a) swimming pool, b) other water-based 
facilities, c) other associated features (e.g. sauna), and d) hard courts?
A11. For a) swimming pool and b) other water-based facilities, the usable area of the 
facility refers to its Plan Area and cut-off at the edge of the drain/edge of the wall of 
the facility, whichever is smaller. For c) other associated features, the usable area 
refers to the Plan Area of the facility, excluding shower/washing facilities like 
changing/shower room. For d) hard courts, the usable area of the facility refers to its 
Plan Area and cuts off at the fence/wall of the facility. 
Q12. The swimming pool is not of regular shape. How does the MCST 
determine the area? 
Usable Area of the 
Facility
Maximum Capacity
More than 50 square 
metres
Should be limited to 1 person per 16 square metres of 
usable area or 50 persons, whichever is lower.
Each group should be 3 metres apart and each person in 
the group should be 2 metres apart 
Smaller than 50
square metres
Should be limited to 2 persons.5
A12. The MCST can refer to the building plan of the development for the Plan Area
of the swimming pool. Alternatively, the MCST can draw the best possible 
approximation of a regular shape within the outline of the pool to facilitate calculation. 
In the example below, the dotted rectangle can be used to calculate the area of the 
pool (indicated in blue outline).
Example
Q13. The common swimming pool is linked or connected to the private pool of 
each housing unit (e.g. for units on the ground floor). When the MCST computes 
the maximum number of persons who can use the common swimming pool, 
should the area of the private pools be included?
A13. No. The MCST should not include the area of the private pools as part of the 
area of the common pool to compute the maximum number of persons who can use 
the common swimming pool.
Q14. Can individuals from different households use a facility together?
A14. Individuals from different households can use a facility together. In general, the 
individuals should maintain a safe distance of at least 1 metre when using any facility. 
If a 1 metre safe distancing between individuals is not feasible or practical, it can be 
applied between groups of up to 2 persons, but there should be no mixing or interaction 
between groups which are using the same facility. Please see the illustration below. 
If the activities involve exercising or playing of sports, then a longer safe distance of 
2~3 metres should be maintained. 
Q15. What are the common facilities that should be closed? 
>1m >1m6
A15. All outdoor barbeque pits must be closed till 13 June 2021.
Q16. If the development has a large function room or event facility, can the 
MCST allow more than 2 persons to use the room/facility?
A16. Any gathering conducted in the function rooms or event facilities, except for the 
holding of solemnisations, receptions, wakes/funerals, and post-funeral religious rites,
shall be kept to a maximum of 2 persons, regardless of the size of the room. 
Q17. What are the requirements for holding solemnisations, receptions, and 
wakes/funerals in the common property within condominiums? 
A17. For marriage solemnisations, Marriage solemnisations may continue for up to 
100 participants with pre-event testing (PET) and 50 participants without PET* under 
“Marriage Solemnisations and Receptions” at 
https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/safemanagement/sector, and FAQs at 
https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/faq/sectorspecific/marriage for further information. No 
wedding reception is allowed till 13 June 2021.
For wakes and funerals, up to 20 persons (excluding funeral workers and vendors) will 
be allowed at any one time on all days. MCSTs can refer to the COVID-19 (Temporary 
Measures) (Control Order) Regulations 2020 and the NEA’s guidelines 
(https://www.nea.gov.sg/our-services/public-cleanliness/environmental-cleaningguidelines/phase-three-measures) for the full list of SMMs applicable.
The number of attendees for the events is subject to the individual venue’s capacity 
limit based on safe management principles. MCSTs may also set additional conditions 
for the use of their facilities, such as a lower limit for attendance based on their capacity 
or ability to ensure that SMMs are implemented.
Q18. What are the requirements for holding post-funeral religious rites in the 
common property within condominiums? 
A18. The number of attendees at the event should generally be kept to 20 persons 
or fewer at any time. This excludes any religious workers, which should be kept to a 
minimum. MCSTs can refer to the COVID-19 (Temporary Measures) (Control Order) 
Regulations 2020 for the full list of SMMs applicable.
Q19. Can MCSTs choose not to allow the holding of solemnisations, receptions, 
wakes/funerals or post-funeral religious rites in the common property within 
condominiums?7
A19. MCSTs have a duty to control, manage and administer the common property 
for the benefit of all subsidiary proprietors in the development, in accordance with the 
applicable by-laws (including prescribed by-law 18(2) in the Second Schedule to the 
Building Maintenance (Strata Management) Regulations). Therefore, MCSTs should 
assess and determine their capacity and ability to put in place the necessary SMMs 
for the respective event/activity, and may set additional conditions for the use of their 
premises. Otherwise, MCSTs can choose to disallow these events/activities within the 
development. As a good practice, MCSTs are encouraged to inform residents, for 
instance, through a circular or notice, should MCSTs decide to disallow these 
events/activities.
Q20. Do MCST and security guards have the power to enforce if residents 
report non-compliances to safe distancing measures or safe management 
measures? 
A20. MCST and security guards should step up patrol of the common areas and 
ensure that residents observe the safe distancing measures implemented by the 
Government to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission. Residents can alert the 
security guards or MCST of any evidence of non-compliances to social distancing 
measures. Where necessary, the MCST can escalate the report to BCA at 
http://www.bca.gov.sg/feedbackform with detailed information (e.g. location, date and 
time, and photographic evidence).
Q21. Some residents are not following guidelines to maintain safe distancing 
or are having large gathering at common areas or at their homes, what can we 
do?
A21. Social gatherings of 2 persons in each group outside their homes are allowed 
under the COVID-19 (Temporary Measures) (Control Order) Regulations 2020 to 
combat the coronavirus outbreak. Further, each household may only receive up to 2
unique visitors per day.
Failure to comply with all relevant requirements is an offence, and BCA will not hesitate 
to take enforcement action against errant parties. Any non-compliance to the safe 
management measures should be reported to your MCST or Managing Agents (MAs) 
immediately. MCSTs are expected to diligently monitor the situation within their 
estates, and promptly deal with any contraventions of the requirements. For 
recalcitrant cases, MCSTs/MAs may provide feedback to BCA 
(http://www.bca.gov.sg/feedbackform) with detailed information pertaining to any 
contravention of the requirements