 
1
Issued: 14 May 2021
Updated: 18 May 2021
Issued: 14 May 2021
Updated: 18 May 2021
FURTHER STRICTER SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES FOR SPORT AND PHYSICAL EXERCISE & ACTIVITY
(16 May to 13 June 2021)
1. On 14 May 2021, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce announced that with effect from 16 May 
to 13 June 2021, there will be further tightening of safe management measures to curb the 
transmission of COVID-19 within the community. To reduce risks of community transmission, 
indoor “mask-off” activities will cease during this period. The current permissible group size of 
up to 5 persons will also be reduced to no more than 2 persons.
2. Following that announcement, Sport Singapore is providing an updated guidance on 
the stricter set of measures that concerns all sports, physical exercises & activities, and public 
& private sports & recreational facilities in Singapore for the period of 16 May to 13 June 2021.
These measures are directed towards reducing or containing community spread of COVID-19 
by stopping sport and physical activities that take place in high-risk environments. In general, 
high-risk environments are enclosed, indoor spaces (fully enclosed on all sides), where 
participants are likely to engage in strenuous activities unmasked. As a result, no strenuous 
physical activities should take place in any indoor spaces regardless of size (including Indoor 
Sports Halls and atriums in shopping malls). There are also further restrictions on density and 
group size as well as outdoor and indoor exercise classes.
3. The updated measures described in this guidance have to be adhered to starting 16 
May 2021 and ending at the end of 13 June 2021 and supersedes the guidance issued on 7
May 2021. Additionally, this guidance has been updated on 18 May 2021 to include 
paragraph 3A & 3B on the measures introduced to safeguard the well-being of children 
and youths
1
.
SUSPENSION OF SPORT / PHYSICAL ACTIVITY CLASSES / PROGRAMMES FOR 18 
YEARS & BELOW, FROM 19 MAY
3A. Aligning to the Ministry of Education’s announcements on 16 and 18 May 2021 to 
reduce the intermingling of students from different schools and enhance the safety of students,
all indoor sport / physical activity classes / programmes regardless of class size that cater to 
individuals who are 18 years (born in 2003) and below, are to be suspended or moved online. 
This takes effect from 19 May to 13 June 2021 or till further notice.
3B. Outdoor sport / physical activity for this age group1 shall be restricted to only 1 coach 
to 1 student/trainee. If activity is strenuous, mask can be taken off but have to be put on 
immediately after the end of the activity. No group outdoor classes / programmes can be 
conducted for this age group during the stipulated period.
FURTHER REDUCTION OF GROUP SIZE FOR SPORT & PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES
4. The following conditions shall apply to all sport and physical exercises & activities, and 
sport & recreational facilities from 16 May to 13 June 2021:
1 Refers to 18 years (born in 2003) and below 
2
Issued: 14 May 2021
Updated: 18 May 2021
a. Sport/recreational facilities can only admit a maximum number of persons 
according to its Gross Floor Area based on 16 Sqm per person2
, up to a 
maximum of 50 persons, instead of 10 Sqm per person. No facility, regardless 
of size, shall admit more than 50 persons.
b. Group activities must be confined to no more than 2 individuals. The physical 
distancing3 between individuals and groups of up to 2 individuals must be 
maintained while exercising and playing sport. 
i. For organised programmes and classes that take place indoors, an additional 
service provider (such as an instructor or a coach) from a permitted enterprise 
may guide the group. Multiple groups of 2 remain allowable up to 30 
participants or the capacity limit of the venue, whichever is lower. The groups 
of 2 are not to intermingle before, during and after the class, and must remain 
3 metres apart. Refer to subsequent paragraphs on restricting all indoor 
activities to low intensity activities with masks on at all times.
ii. For organised programmes and classes that take place outdoors, an 
additional service provider (such as an instructor or a coach) from a permitted 
enterprise may guide the group. Multiple groups of 2 remain allowable up to 30
participants or the capacity limit of the venue, whichever is lower, if the activity 
is of low intensity with masks on at all times. The groups of 2 are not to 
intermingle before, during, and after the class, and must remain 3 metres apart.
If the activity is of high intensity where masks have to be removed, including 
for swimming, only two persons are allowed (including instructor or coach) and 
there can be no multiple groups of 2.
iii. Physical activity of a social nature should be kept to 2 participants.
c. Large complexes or multi-function premises such as country clubs may treat 
different parts of their premises as separate facilities, provided that they are well 
separated by physical barriers such that intermingling is not possible.
LOW INTENSITY SPORT & PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES IN INDOOR ENVIRONMENTS
5. Physical activities, sport and exercise environments that are indoors
4
, where 
participants are in close contact, exerting and are not reasonably expected to be wearing 
masks, will not be allowed.
a. All indoor facilities may only allow low intensity sport and physical activities with 
masks on at all times. Indoor high risk environments, i.e. indoor public and private 
gyms and fitness/exercise/dance studios5
, including those operated by 
2 The Gross Floor Area includes exercises spaces, as well as other spaces such as changing rooms, rest areas within the facility. 
Facilities up to 32 sqm can admit up to 2 persons; this does not include staff. 
3 A 2-metre physical distancing between individuals should be maintained while exercising and playing sport. If there is more than 
one group sharing a space, the groups must not interact and must maintain a distance of 3 metres apart from one another at all 
times.
4 Defined as premises which are fully enclosed on all sides.
5 Premises identified as high-risk physical activities, sport and exercise environments include, but are not limited to, indoor fitness 
training facilities, indoor gyms, as well as fitness studios and similar indoor studio settings for climb walls, trampoline, dance, 
barre, spin, etc. Such indoor premises (and including any other type of indoor premises such as hotel, club or condominium 
function rooms) must not be allowed to be used, or hired out to others for use for any high intensity sport and physical activities 
where participants are in close contact, exerting and not wearing masks during the stipulated period.  
3
Issued: 14 May 2021
Updated: 18 May 2021
commercial enterprises, country clubs, golf clubs, private apartments, 
condominiums and charities, are to close during the stipulated period, unless they 
only offer low intensity physical activities, sport and exercises where all 
participants and instructors are wearing masks at all times
b. No such facility will be allowed to offer weight, strength or resistance training of 
any form, and/or provide equipment for such training, as these are associated with 
strenuous activities. 
c. Participants, instructors and staff of these facilities also have to adhere to a more 
stringent set of safe management measures (SMMs) per Annex. 
d. Premises may be used by a coach/instructor for the purposes of producing digital 
content for online classes. Sport Singapore will have to be notified beforehand at 
Sport_Covid@sport.gov.sg to confirm adherence to prevailing SMMs for digital 
content production. There shall be no other activities at the premises when digital 
content production is taking place.
6. For a list of affected Sport Singapore’s indoor facilities and programmes during this 
period, please visit https://www.myactivesg.com/Facilities/Sport-Centres/Facilities-Closure.
Refunds for affected bookings that fall under these dates will be processed within the next 
seven working days.
LARGE GROUP OUTDOOR CLASSES
7. Approved large outdoor classes at public spaces such as parks and HDB common 
areas, can continue, subject to the venue size and safe distancing requirements as stated in 
paragraph 4(b)ii. All instructors must also be registered with Sport Singapore.6
8. Sport Singapore is looking into the provision of more outdoor spaces within its 
ActiveSG facilities for coaches and instructors to conduct their classes. The mechanism to 
apply for these spaces will be announced to the community when ready.
OTHER SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES 
9. Other safe management measures will continue to be in place. These include, but are 
not limited to:
a. Mask wearing. Masks should be worn as a default. If an individual is engaged in 
an outdoor activity of high intensity by himself or with another person (i.e. no 
more than 2 in the group), masks may be removed for the activity. Maintain social 
distancing from other groups.
Those performing permitted low intensity sport and physical activity in an indoor 
environment are required to wear a mask at all times. The activity has to cease 
immediately, if any participant removes his or her mask, even for a short while to 
breathe.
6
Instructors who are interested to conduct large outdoor classes at outdoor public spaces must be registered and can do so via 
https://circle.myactivesg.com/programmes/classes/coaches/outdoor-classes-instructor-registration. Subsequent approval from 
facility owner need to be sought before activities can be conducted. 
4
Issued: 14 May 2021
Updated: 18 May 2021
b. Sharing of common equipment should be avoided. Participants in an indoor 
environment should not share sport and exercise equipment, such as exercise 
machines, bars, free weights, stationary bikes, treadmills, exercise mats where 
fomite transmission risk is high. No premises that remain open is to provide such 
equipment for use. 
c. Reducing Physical Interaction & Hygiene and Ensuring Safe Distancing. Owners 
or operators of facilities are responsible for ensuring safe management measures 
are implemented, and that their patrons/users comply. Facility owners/operators 
will have to: 
i. Organise human traffic flow and space management to ensure that the mixing 
of groups is minimised to transient contact; 
ii. Put in place measures to minimise crowding or mixing at common facilities e.g. 
toilets. Where possible, specific common facilities should be designated to 
specific zones so that attendees from different zones do not mix when using 
such facilities;
iii. Conduct temperature screening7 and checks on visible symptoms8
for visitors, 
and turn away those with fever and/or who appear unwell. SafeEntry must be 
implemented for participants and visitors. From 17 May 2021 onwards, all 
participants and staff are to use either the TraceTogether app or the 
TraceTogether Tokens for SafeEntry;
iv. Frequently disinfect common spaces and interactive components (e.g. smart 
kiosks, turnstiles). Operators are strongly encouraged to adopt good sanitation 
and hygiene practices to achieve the SG Clean quality mark;
v. Place hand sanitisers in close proximity of the facility entrance and high-touch 
surfaces like door handles. Attendees should be encouraged to sanitise their 
hands before entering and upon leaving the facility;
vi. Ensure that participants do not shout while engaging in physical activities. This 
is because shouting increases the risk of transmission via droplets. 
Coaches/instructors may raise their volume when communicating instructions 
or in the event of a potential danger.
SPORT EVENTS FROM 8 MAY TO 13 JUNE 2021
10. As part of ongoing efforts to reduce the community spread, Sport Singapore will 
maintain the tightening on sport events during the stipulated period: 
a. Mass participation sport events will not be permitted to take place. Organisers are
to work with Sport Singapore to cancel or postpone the events to a later date.
b. All other sport events, including live spectator sport events, sport competitions and 
tournaments, will be subject to approval before they can proceed. There will be no 
spectators allowed at sport events and competitions. National Sports Associations 
7
Individuals with temperatures 38 degrees celsius and above are considered as having a fever.
8 Notable visible symptoms to look out for include: (a) coughing; (b) sneezing; (c) breathlessness; and (d) a runny 
nose. 
5
Issued: 14 May 2021
Updated: 18 May 2021
that are organising competitions and tournaments related to qualifications for 
international competitions for national athletes, should approach Sport Singapore 
early to discuss their plans.
The above applies to all sport events, including those that have previously been endorsed by 
Sport Singapore.
ENFORCEMENT 
11. Government agencies will be conducting inspections. Enforcement action(s) under the 
COVID-19 (Temporary Measures) Act and the Infectious Diseases Act will be taken against 
businesses or individuals who fail to comply with safe management measures.
EVERYONE HAS A PART TO PLAY AGAINST COVID-19
12. Singaporeans are urged to remain vigilant and observe safe distancing measures in 
place to minimise community transmissions. We all have a part to play in keeping COVID-19 
at bay, and protect ourselves and our loved ones.
13. For the latest updates on COVID-19 for sport and physical exercise & activity, please
visit www.sportsingapore.gov.sg. For queries, members of the public can email the Sport 
Singapore QSM at https://members.myactivesg.com/feedback or call 1800-344-1177 during 
office hours (Mondays to Fridays, 9.00am to 6.00pm).
14. This guidance supersedes all advisories issued by Sport Singapore before this date.
- End - 
6
Issued: 14 May 2021
Updated: 18 May 2021
ANNEX – ENHANCED SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES (SMMs) FOR 
INDOOR HIGH-RISK ENVIRONMENTS OFFERING LOW INTENSITY SPORT 
AND PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES FROM 16 MAY TO 13 JUNE 2021
Facility operators will have to comply with all of the following SMMs:
a. All participants, including instructors and staff, must be properly masked at all times, 
including when performing the physical activity;
b. Staggered class start times to allow for a minimum of 15 minutes between classes 
and/or put in place separate routes if a premise is able to host multiple classes at a 
time. This is to prevent intermingling and mixing between participants before and after 
class. Operators will have to ventilate the room after each class ends. Participants 
must leave the premises immediately once they have completed their classes, or if 
they have exceeded a two-hour period;
c. Organised programmes and classes are limited to no more than 30 persons or lower 
subject to the venue size and safe distancing requirements, and in groups of no more 
than 2 persons; 
d. Physical distancing of 2 metres between individuals must be maintained in general 
while exercising, and 3 metres between different groups must be maintained at all 
times. There shall be no intermingling between groups before, during and after 
classes; 
e. There must be no provision of common equipment to minimise fomite transmission. 
Sharing of any equipment should be avoided (e.g. weights, exercise mats). The 
premises must be wiped down / sanitised frequently to minimise the risk of COVID-19
transmission; 
f. Food and drink must not be supplied or consumed within the activity area, except if the 
consumption of a drink is necessary to preserve life or prevent injury in an emergency; 
g. Ensure that participants, including the instructor, do not talk loudly, sing, or shout while 
engaging in physical activities to minimise risk of transmission via droplets. Instructor 
may raise their volume when communicating instructions or in the event of a potential 
danger.