HEALTH ADVISORY FOR PERSONS ISSUED STAY-HOME NOTICE
WHAT MUST BE DONE DURING THE STAY-HOME NOTICE PERIOD
1. You must remain in your place of residence at all times during the Stay-Home 
Notice period. Do not leave your residence, even if it is to purchase food and essentials. 
If necessary, you may opt for home delivery services or enlist the assistance of others 
for your daily necessities.
2. Avoid contact with other persons residing in the same place of residence who 
are not serving SHN with you. You are prohibited from coming into contact with other 
persons (who do not stay with you) within 2 metres, other than for the purposes of 
receiving delivery of food or other essential supplies, taking designated transport, or 
taking the COVID-19 test at the designated testing facility. 
3. If sharing a place of residence with others, stay in your own room at all times, 
and use a dedicated toilet. 
4. The prohibition against leaving your residence is strict. You must not leave your 
place of residence to use common facilities in your estate/building such as the pool, 
gym, or playground. 
5. If applicable, inform your employer or school that you have been issued a StayHome Notice as soon as possible. 
6. You may only leave your residence for medical assistance (see para 11), for 
your scheduled COVID-19 test appointment at the designated testing facility, or for
purposes approved by the authorities, and you must return immediately to your 
residence thereafter. When going for your COVID-19 test appointment, ensure that 
you are well and not having cough, fever, sore throat, runny nose, or loss of smell. 
Comply with the general precautions including wearing a mask, and remember to bring 
your identification documents to the designated testing facility. If you are issued an
electronic monitoring device and/or electronic gateway device, you must keep the 
device(s) with you even when leaving your residence for approved purposes by the 
authorities.
TRANSPORT ARRANGEMENTS
If you are serving your 14-day Stay-Home Notice at dedicated SHN facilities
7. If you need to leave the dedicated SHN facility for your scheduled COVID-19 
test appointment, transport arrangements will be made by MOH. However, if you need 
to leave the dedicated SHN facility for approved purposes (e.g. scheduled medical 2
appointment), you will need to make transport arrangements at your own cost from the 
transport service provider listed in Table 1 below.
If you have been allowed to serve your 14-day Stay-Home Notice at your place of 
residence
8. You must make transport arrangements at your own cost from the transport 
service provider listed in Table 1, for:
a. travelling from the checkpoint to your place of residence; and
b. leaving your place of residence for your scheduled COVID-19 test 
appointment at the designated testing facility or for approved purposes. 
You must return immediately to your residence thereafter.
Table 1: Transport Service Provider for Persons Serving 14-Day SHN 
Service 
Provider and 
Contact 
Number
Type of trip Cost 
(an additional 10% will 
be charged for credit 
card transactions)
Strides 
Transportation 
Pte Ltd
6477 5977
From checkpoint to residence -
Please follow the booking instructions 
provided at the booking desk at the 
checkpoint when making transport 
arrangements. 
plus
From residence to testing facility for 
COVID-19 test (round trip) - Please 
ensure that your test appointment has 
been scheduled before making transport 
arrangements.
$200.00 
From any other ad-hoc trips 
approved by the authorities
Round Trip – $90.00 
Per Way – $45.00 
If you are serving a 7-day Stay-Home Notice
9. When travelling, you must use your own private vehicle, or book a taxi or a 
private hire car from the list of contact numbers or ride-hail applications (app) provided
in Table 2. 
a. For phone booking, please identify yourself as a person subject to a StayHome Notice to the hotline operator. 
b. For app booking, please indicate your status as a person subject to a StayHome Notice by keying “SHN” in the chat/note/comment box or by checking 
the SHN checkbox (if provided within the app).3
Please also identify yourself as a person subject to a Stay-Home Notice when 
boarding the vehicle. When travelling in the taxi or private hire car, you should sit alone
in the back seat, with windows down and the air-conditioning turned off. Do not take 
other forms of public transport (e.g. street-hail taxi / bus / train).
Table 2: Transport Service Providers for Persons Serving 7-Day SHN 
Service Provider Contact Number* / 
Mobile Application
1 ComfortDelgro Taxi (Comfort & CityCab taxis) 6333 1133 or via 
ComfortDelGro app
2 TransCab 6213 0997
3 SMRT 6477 5971
4 Prime 6776 7553
5 Premier 6681 9462
6 Go-Jek, GrabSHN, Ryde, MVL(TADA) via respective providers’
app
*Operating hours: 8am - 6pm
CHECK FOR SYMPTOMS
10. Monitor your health closely, i.e. twice daily for fever (i.e. ≥ 38°C) and respiratory 
symptoms such as cough and breathlessness.
11. If you are unwell, seek medical attention immediately, and avoid contact with 
others. 
a. For emergency / life-threatening cases (such as cardiac arrest, active seizures, 
breathlessness, major traumas and stroke), please call 995 directly for 
assistance.
b. For all other non-emergency medical needs (such as cough, fever, runny nose, 
or follow-up visits for chronic conditions, refilling of prescriptions, etc.):
• If you are staying in a dedicated SHN facility, you may contact the hotel front 
desk or equivalent for assistance;
• For Singapore citizens, permanent residents, Long-Term Visit Pass holders 
and short-term visitors, you may call the SHN helpline at 6812 5555; 
• For students, you may seek assistance from your educational institution; 
and
• For foreign employees (including foreign domestic workers) issued with a 
work pass, you may contact your employer or your Singapore employment 
agency. However, if you have acute respiratory infection (e.g. symptoms of 
cough, sore throat, runny nose, loss of smell), please send your name, FIN 
and SHN residential address (i.e. Block, Floor, Unit No. and Postal Code) 
via WhatsApp (87253691) to MOM instead. 4
Arrangements will be made for you to receive appropriate medical attention. 
Please inform the staff / doctor of your travel history and that you have been 
issued a SHN prior to the start of the consultation.
AVOID INTERACTION WITH VULNERABLE PERSONS
12. Avoid interactions with vulnerable persons, for example, seniors aged 60 and 
above or persons with underlying health conditions, even if you are not experiencing 
any symptoms. Consider alternative accommodation if these interactions cannot be 
avoided. 
OBSERVE GOOD PERSONAL HYGIENE
13. Maintain good personal hygiene, including regular hand washing with soap and 
water. Flush the toilet after use, and wash your hands before and after handling food 
or eating, and after going to the toilet. 
14. Do not touch your face. 
15. Cover your mouth when coughing or sneezing.
16. Maintain good indoor ventilation. 
17. Carry out frequent cleaning of your place of residence. 
18. Do not share food, crockery, utensils and other personal hygiene items. 
19. If you need to leave your room, avoid touching any surfaces such as doorknobs 
and handles, or wipe them down with disinfectant should you do so.
20. Masks are mandatory at all times when leaving the room / house e.g. if you 
need to seek medical attention. 
PENALTIES FOR BREACH OF STAY-HOME NOTICE
21. Individuals who breach their Stay-Home Notice may be prosecuted under the 
the Infectious Diseases Act and/or the Infectious Diseases (COVID-19 – Stay Orders) 
Regulations 2020. First-time offenders can be fined up to $10,000, jailed for up to six 
months, or both. 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
26 FEBRUARY 202