CEA Ref: N13-21
Date: 15 May 2021
By Email
To: Key Executive Officers and Real Estate Salespersons
Dear Sir / Madam,
[NOTICE 13-21] UPDATED ADVISORY ON PROPERTY TRANSACTION 
ACTIVITIES BY ESTATE AGENTS AND REAL ESTATE SALESPERSONS 
UNDER PHASE 2 (HEIGHTENED ALERT) IN THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19
1. This notice is to update Key Executive Officers (KEOs) and Real Estate 
Salespersons (RESs) on the new measures to observe from 16 May 2021 through 
13 June 2021 (inclusive) to minimise the risk of transmission of COVID-19.
Updated advisory
2. On 14 May 2021, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) announced that:
a. The permissible group size will be further reduced from five to two persons. 
b. The maximum number of distinct visitors allowed per household per day 
will similarly be reduced from five to two persons. 
3. Both restrictions take effect from 16 May 2021 and will continue until 13 June 
2021 (inclusive). Individuals are also strongly encouraged to continue to limit their 
overall number of social gatherings to not more than two per day, whether to another 
household, or meeting with friends and family members in a public place. 4. The real estate agency industry must continue to play its part to reduce the 
spread of COVID-19. The number of locally transmitted COVID-19 cases and 
unlinked community cases have continued to increase, and the situation could quickly 
escalate if these cases are not contained swiftly and decisively. Given that the nature 
of estate agency work may require you to be in various enclosed spaces and in close 
proximity with different persons and clients, you must be extra vigilant and take all 
necessary precautions against the spread of COVID-19 in Singapore.
5. With the new announcement, this means that you need to ensure that no more 
than two distinct persons a day may visit a property inhabited by a household when 
you conduct estate agency work. The two distinct persons include you and any other 
person who is visiting the property. You will need to check that your client and the 
property occupant(s), if the client does not live at the property being visited, are aware 
of the updated rules, and the number of visitors that may visit the property per day.
6. In addition, in line with the need to act decisively to contain the risk of any 
spread from undetected cases in the community, you are to defer all door-to-door 
marketing activities, including flyer distribution to households and business premises,
until further notice.
7. Estate Agents (EAs) and RESs are advised to observe this notice and 
attached updated Guide, which supersedes the previous Notice 10-21 dated 5 May
2021, from 16 May 2021 onwards.8. We seek your continued support and cooperation to protect the health and 
safety of your employees, RESs, clients and the community. 
Yours sincerely, 
KELLY NG
DEPUTY DIRECTOR (POLICY & PLANNING)
COUNCIL FOR ESTATE AGENCIES
Annex – CEA Guide on Property Transaction Activities by EAs and RESs under 
Phase 2 (Heightened Alert) in the fight against COVID-19 (15 May 2021).As at 15 May 2021
Annex to 
CEA Notice 13-21
CEA GUIDE ON PROPERTY TRANSACTION ACTIVITIES BY ESTATE AGENTS 
AND REAL ESTATE SALESPERSONS UNDER PHASE 2 (HEIGHTENED ALERT) 
IN THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19
1. This Guide sets out how estate agents (EAs) and Real Estate Salespersons 
(RESs) can conduct your operations at your office and your property transaction 
activities in a safe manner to minimise the risk of transmission of COVID-19. This 
Guide has been updated following the new heightened measures announced by the
Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) on 14 May 2021. 
2. In addition to this Guide, you must follow all mandatory requirements and 
guidance issued by other government ministries and agencies (see Appendix). 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
3. The real estate agency industry has an important role to play in reducing the 
spread of COVID-19 in Singapore. We must remain vigilant in our fight against 
COVID-19. The following general principles will continue to apply to EAs and RESs:
a. Fighting COVID-19 is our collective responsibility: The real estate 
agency industry shares the responsibility of protecting yourselves and the 
community you serve to minimise the risk of community transmission. All 
of us must continue to exercise social responsibility to prevent new cases 
and clusters from emerging in our industry and community. b. Safe management measures should be an integral part of property 
transaction activities: As you conduct your operations and property 
transaction activities, you should continue to adopt a cautious approach 
and accord priority to protect public health and safety. 
CORPORATE FUNCTIONS
General requirements
4. You are to comply with the Ministry of Manpower’s (MOM) requirements for 
safe management measures at your office (click here). Work-from-home will be the 
default at workplaces, and you must ensure that employees who are able to work 
from home do so.
Group or mass activities
5. You are encouraged to use information technology (IT) tools such as video or 
virtual conferencing platforms, in place of group or mass activities. 
6. If a group or mass activity cannot be done virtually, EAs must adopt a cautious 
approach and reduce the number of people interacting with one another and the 
duration of the activity. EAs must comply with relevant safe management measures 
and guidelines for events and activities1
, such as limits on capacity and group sizes.
1 This includes consumer-facing events, such as property launches, roadshows and other marketing 
events.PROPERTY TRANSACTION ACTIVITIES
Standard requirements for on-site property transaction activities
7. You should continue to use IT tools and solutions for your work as much as 
possible, and only meet your clients in person if it is absolutely necessary for the 
conduct of the property transaction. If the activity cannot be done virtually, you must 
take the necessary safe management precautions and record the details of all 
persons whom you meet. This means that:
a. EAs and RESs must adopt the following precautions and ensure that all 
persons at the activity do the same (hereinafter referred to as “safety 
precautions”):
i. Wear masks2
.
ii. Maintain a physical distance of at least one metre between persons. 
iii. If a person who turns up for the activity is unwell (e.g. exhibits 
respiratory symptoms and/or has a fever), ask him not to participate in 
the activity, and to see a doctor.
b. If the activity is conducted in premises where safe management measures 
are not in place (e.g. at a client’s place of residence) or at the transaction 
property (whether occupied or unoccupied), you must record the entry of 
your client(s) or any person accompanying you into the premises 
2 Face shields should not be used as a substitute for mask wear, except for certain exceptions as 
permitted by MOH.(hereinafter referred to as “contact tracing requirements”). You may 
choose to keep the records manually or using other methods3
. 
c. If you are conducting viewing, handover or takeover activities, you are 
encouraged to take appropriate measures to reduce contact with surfaces 
(hereinafter referred to as "contactless requirements”):
i. Encourage all attendees to sanitise their hands.
ii. Open doors and windows, and switch on lights in the property so as 
to minimise your clients touching these during the on-site activity. If 
the property is occupied, you may wish to request the occupants to 
do so prior to the activity.
iii. Request your clients not to touch surfaces within the premises. You 
may wear gloves to prepare and facilitate the viewing, handover or 
takeover with minimum contact of the property by your clients.
iv. Do not hand out materials at the meeting (e.g. marketing materials or 
documents relating to the handover or takeover such as end-oftenancy checklist, inventory list or property condition report). You 
should use electronic means to deliver such materials to your clients.
3 EAs and RESs are encouraged to adopt the use of TraceTogether via the TraceTogether token or 
mobile application for all your estate agency work with your clients and whenever you engage and 
meet other people in the course of your activities. Listing and marketing properties
8. You are encouraged to market properties using non-physical means (e.g. 
digital or telephone marketing). The following activities should be deferred until 
further notice:
a. Door-to-door marketing activities (e.g. canvassing from door to door to 
request owners of unlisted properties if they would like to sell their property).
This includes distributing flyers to households and business premises. 
b. Marketing of properties (including new developments) in public spaces. 
This includes marketing and distributing flyers at publicly accessible 
common spaces such as public transport nodes and HDB common areas.
9. If you lease enclosed premises in buildings zoned for retail use such as malls 
to conduct property transaction activities, you are to comply with the safe 
management measures for retail establishments that have been set out by Enterprise 
Singapore, Housing & Development Board (HDB), Singapore Tourism Board and 
Urban Redevelopment Authority. The measures that apply to all customer-facing 
operations of retail establishments include safe distancing, crowd management, 
contact tracing, health checks, cleanliness and hygiene measures.
10. EAs and RESs may enter properties to photograph or film the properties in 
order to conduct online viewings thereafter, subject to the consent of the seller or 
landlord. In addition, you must:
a. Comply with the safety precautions and contact tracing requirements as 
stated in paragraph 7(a) and paragraph 7(b) respectively. 
b. If the property is inhabited by a household, check with your client and the 
property occupant(s), if the client does not live at the property being visited,to ensure that your visit would not exceed the cap of two distinct visitors 
(which includes yourself) per household per day, and that your client and 
the property occupant(s) are aware of this requirement for all visitors. For 
vacant properties, ensure that no more than two persons visit the property 
at any one time. Such persons include you and any professional whom you 
engaged to assist you with preparing the property for listing or virtual 
viewing (e.g. video production crew). 
c. Minimise the amount of time spent in the property.
d. Minimise interactions with the occupants if the property is occupied.
Meeting your client
11. You are encouraged to continue using IT tools in place of face-to-face 
interaction, such as video or virtual conferencing platforms to meet with your client. 
12. If the meeting cannot be done virtually (e.g. to sign property transaction 
documents that require “wet-ink” signatures), you should do so in premises where 
safe management measures are in place, such as the EA’s office. You should reduce 
the number of persons attending the meeting to the minimum extent possible.
13. If you meet your client at his place of residence or at the transaction property, 
you must:
a. Comply with the safety precautions and contact tracing requirements as 
stated in paragraph 7(a) and paragraph 7(b) respectively. 
b. If the property is inhabited by a household, check with your client and the 
property occupant(s), if the client does not live at the property being visited,
to ensure that your visit would not exceed the cap of two distinct visitors (which includes yourself) per household per day, and that your client and 
the property occupant(s) are aware of this requirement for all visitors. For 
vacant properties, ensure that no more than two persons visit the property 
at any one time. Such persons include you and any other person who is
visiting the property.
c. Minimise the time spent with the client.
Conducting viewings
14. You are encouraged to arrange for virtual viewings first before doing viewings 
in person to reduce the number of viewings that your client will need to decide on the 
property. 
15. Open houses are still not allowed as these may attract large groups of people 
congregating at the property.
16. When conducting physical viewings, you are to:
a. Comply with the safety precautions and contact tracing requirements, and 
are encouraged to adopt contactless measures as stated in paragraph 
7(a), paragraph 7(b) and paragraph 7(c) respectively. 
b. Arrange for all viewings to be done on an appointment basis only, with the 
start and end times clearly stated and known to the attendees of the 
viewing. Keep viewings short and end by the scheduled end time. You 
must not schedule back-to-back viewings for vacant properties. There 
should be a time gap between appointments to prevent gatherings or 
physical interactions with other persons from taking place in or near the 
property.c. If the property is inhabited by a household, check with your client and the 
property occupant(s), if the client does not live at the property being visited,
to ensure that your visit would not exceed the cap of two distinct visitors 
(which includes yourself) per household per day, and that your client and 
the property occupant(s) are aware of this requirement for all visitors. For 
vacant properties, ensure that no more than two distinct persons visit the 
property at any one time. Such persons include you and any other person 
who is visiting the property.
17. Where advisories have been issued by relevant authorities (e.g. by the Urban 
Redevelopment Authority) in relation to clients’ business activities, EAs and RESs 
should adhere to these advisories and advise their clients accordingly.
Signing and delivering estate agency agreement and property transaction documents
18. You should continue to use IT tools and solutions as much as possible, and 
only meet your client in person if it is absolutely necessary for the conduct of the 
property transaction. This means that you should:
a. Use electronic means to deliver and receive the documents from your client. 
b. Arrange for a phone, video or virtual meeting to go through and explain the 
clauses in the documents to your client. You must give your client sufficient 
time to read and understand the meaning and consequences of the 
provisions in the documents.
c. Use electronic signatures in place of “wet-ink” signatures for signing of the 
estate agency agreement. d. If you meet the client at a property that is inhabited by a household, ensure 
that your visit would not exceed the cap of two distinct visitors (which 
includes yourself) per household per day.
19. Different organisations such as banks and the transacting parties may have 
their own policies or preferences on the use of electronic signatures. Contracting 
parties may consider the use of secure electronic signatures for property transactions 
for greater assurance, such as “Sign with SingPass”, which allows SingPass users to 
use the SingPass mobile application to digitally sign an electronic document. You 
should seek advice from appropriate professionals such as lawyers if you or your 
client have any doubt in relation to the use of electronic signatures for these 
documents. 
20. Please note that HDB currently does not allow the exercise of option to be 
done remotely or electronically. Forms prescribed by HDB, such as its Option to 
Purchase form, require “wet-ink” signatures.
Handing or taking over rental properties
21. You may assist to facilitate the handover or takeover of rental properties. 
However, you should first arrange for virtual meetings to discuss handover or 
takeover matters. 
22. When meeting, you should keep interactions short and adhere strictly to the 
group size cap and/or daily visitor cap. In addition, you must comply with the safety 
precautions and contact tracing requirements, and are encouraged to adopt
contactless measures as stated in paragraph 7(a), paragraph 7(b) and paragraph 7(c) 
respectively.CONCLUSION
23. Where mandatory requirements and guidance by other government ministries 
and agencies have been issued, you should adhere to them and advise your client 
accordingly. These authorities include Ministry of Health, Ministry of Manpower, 
Ministry of Trade and Industry, Building and Construction Authority, Enterprise 
Singapore, Housing & Development Board, Singapore Tourism Board, Urban 
Redevelopment Authority, and Singapore Land Authority. You may refer to the 
resource reference at the Appendix.
24. The heightened measures that are imposed from 16 May 2021 to 13 June
2021 under Phase 2 (Heightened Alert), are necessary to curb the COVID-19 
infections in Singapore. We seek your continued support and cooperation to remain 
vigilant and adhere to the safe management measures to protect the health and 
safety of your employees, RESs, clients and the community.Appendix of 
Annex to CEA Notice 13-21
LIST OF KEY GOVERNMENT MINISTRIES AND AGENCIES WITH GUIDANCE AND ADVISORIES RELEVANT TO 
THE REAL ESTATE AGENCY INDUSTRY
[CEA] COVID-19
http://www.cea.gov.sg/covid19
[MOH]
https://www.moh.gov.sg/newshighlights/details/updates-onlocal-situation-and-heightenedalert-to-minimise-transmission14May
[MTI] GoBusiness
https://covid.gobusiness.gov.
sg/
[MOM] Safe 
management measures 
at the workplace
https://www.mom.gov.sg/covi
d-19/requirements-for-safemanagement-measures
[ESG, HDB, STB 
and URA] Safe 
Management 
Measures: Retail 
Establishments 
and lifestylerelated services
https://www.enterpris
esg.gov.sg/covid19/safe-distance
[BCA] Built Environment 
Sector COVID-19 
Information
https://www1.bca.gov.sg/COVI
D-19
[HDB]
https://www.hdb.gov.sg/cs/info
web/homepage
[URA]
https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corp
orate
[SLA]
https://www.sla.gov.sg