 
J OINT ADVISORY
Page 1 of 16
MR No.: 031/21
Updated Advisory for Safe Management Measures at Retail Establishments and Lifestyle-Related Services
1. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) announced on 14 May 2021 that safe management 
measures will be further tightened to reduce the risk of COVID-19 community spread, 
with effect from 16 May through 13 June 2021.
2. To provide a safe environment for customers and workers, retail establishments and 
lifestyle-related services currently in operation must implement Safe Management 
Measures (SMMs), as required by the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and comply with the 
COVID-19 (Temporary Measures) (Control Order) Regulations.
3. In addition, retail establishments and lifestyle-related services are required to comply 
with the measures set out by Enterprise Singapore (ESG), Housing & Development 
Board (HDB), Singapore Tourism Board (STB) and Urban Redevelopment Authority 
(URA) in this document. Establishments required to comply with these measures include
malls, supermarkets and standalone stores 1
. The information in this document 
supersedes that in previous advisories or statements.
Latest updates for Retail establishments
4. Retail establishments and lifestyle-related services are to comply with the following from 
16 May through 13 June 2021:
4.1. Social gatherings are allowed to comprise up to 2 persons, a reduction from 5
persons.
4.2. The occupancy limit for malls and large standalone stores2 will be one 
person per 16 sqm of Gross Floor Area (GFA), instead of one person per 10
sqm of GFA (see paragraphs 6 and 7). During this period, retail establishments 
should cancel all events and promotions that will generate crowding at their 
physical premises in a manner which is non-compliant with the Safe 
Management Measures.
4.3. The operating capacity of Commercial Family Entertainment Centres must 
be kept to a maximum of one person per 16 sqm of usable space or 25% 
operating capacity, whichever is lower3
, instead of one person per 10 sqm of 
usable space or 50% operating capacity (see Annex C). 
4.4. “Mask-off” services and activities must cease, with the exception of 
medical/dental services. Activities which must cease include strenuous indoor 
1 These refer to stores that occupy entire buildings, e.g. IKEA, Decathlon Innovation Lab.
2 These refer to standalone stores > 930 sqm (or 10,000 sqft) of GFA.
3 Facilities below 50 sqm can admit up to 3 persons. This does not include employees.Page 2 of 16
exercise classes, strenuous individual and group indoor sports and exercise 
activities, and personal care services where masks are not worn (e.g. facial 
treatments, make-up services and saunas are not permitted). 
4.5. Food and drinks are not allowed at work-related events. 
4.6. Odd and even date entry restrictions on Sundays for popular malls (Lucky 
Plaza and Peninsula Plaza) will be extended to 13 June 2021.
Work-related events
5. Work-related events (both non customer-facing and customer-facing4
) can be held within 
the workplace premises and third-party venues. Prevailing guidelines for the respective 
event venues will apply.
5.1. Non customer-facing events:
• Events held in retail establishments are subject to a cap of 50 persons or a 
lower number, depending on venue capacity and safe distancing
requirements. 
• At least one-metre spacing between individuals must be maintained at all 
times.
• Food and drinks are not allowed.
• Prevailing SMMs as indicated in MOM’s Requirements for Safe Management 
Measures at the workplace 5 continue to apply.
5.2. Customer-facing events: 
• Events organised by retail establishments within their own retail premises are 
subject to the maximum number of individuals that the venue may 
accommodate after safe distancing measures are adhered to. See 
occupancy limits in paragraphs 6 and 7.
• Events organised by retail establishments at third-party venues are subject 
to a cap of 50 persons or a lower number, depending on venue capacity and 
safe distancing requirements (excluding service staff).
• Events organised by external parties at retail establishments (where the 
premises now functions as a third-party venue) are subject to a cap of 50 
persons (excluding service staff) or a lower number, depending on venue 
capacity and safe distancing requirements.
• Food and drinks are not allowed.
• Each group must be limited to a maximum of 2 persons, with at least onemetre spacing between groups. 
• All other prevailing workplace and venue SMMs must be adhered to.
5.3. Such events are not permitted at public and common areas such as mall atriums, 
public transport nodes, HDB estates and common corridors.
4 Non customer-facing events include conferences, seminars, corporate retreats, etc, while customer-facing events 
include product launches, store opening, marketing/branding events, etc. Social and recreational gatherings (e.g. 
farewell lunch, team bonding activity) at the workplace are disallowed.
5 Refer to MOM’s Requirements for Safe Management Measures at the Workplace. Page 3 of 16
Stipulated occupancy limits
6. From 16 May through 13 June 2021, the occupancy limit for all malls and large 
standalone stores > 930 sqm (or 10,000 sqft) of GFA will be one person per 16 sqm of 
GFA6
.
7. All other stores (e.g. shops within malls, at HDB residential blocks, at MRT stations or 
bus interchanges) are not required to adhere to these occupancy limits as long as at 
least one-metre distancing between individual customers or groups of customers who 
are shopping together (up to 2 persons) is maintained.
Safe Management Measures – Customer-facing operations/Front-of-house
8. The following measures apply to all customer-facing operations of retail establishments
and lifestyle-related services. 
8.1. Safe distancing 
8.1.1. Retail establishments are to ensure at least one-metre spacing between 
groups of customers (of up to 2 persons). 
8.1.2. Retail establishments are to clearly demarcate queue lines for customers 
at entrances, cashier counters, weighing counters, fitting rooms and must 
ensure at least one-metre spacing between individual customers in the 
queue (e.g. using floor markers).
8.1.3. Employees must manage queues to ensure that safe distancing is 
observed at all times.
8.2. Crowd management
8.2.1. Activities and events at public and common areas such as mall atriums,
public transport nodes, HDB estates and common corridors are not 
allowed7
. Retail establishments should cancel all events and promotions 
during this period that will generate crowding at their physical premises 
in a manner which is non-compliant with the Safe Management 
Measures. 
8.2.2. Operators of common play areas for children/toddlers/infants in retail 
stores or malls8 must ensure at least one-metre spacing between groups 
of customers.
8.3. Contact tracing 
8.3.1. The following retail establishments are required to deploy SafeEntry9
to 
log the check-in of customers, vendors and visitors to their premises10:
• Malls and large standalone stores;
• Large retail stores > 930 sqm or 10,000 sqft;
• Supermarkets;
• Personal care services e.g. hairdressers, barbers, spas, beauty and 
wellness; and
• Facilities providing basic pet services (that do not function on a dropoff, pick-up basis).
6 For mixed-use developments, GFA refers to the retail component only.
7 Such activities may be allowed for supermarkets on a case-by-case basis, if an extension of existing retail space 
is deemed necessary to ensure safe distancing. Approval must be sought from ESG.
8 These play areas refer to the facilities provided free-of-charge in the shops or at the malls’ common areas. 
9 More information on SafeEntry and a full list of places where SafeEntry must be deployed can be found at 
https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/safemanagement/safeentry/
10 However, all retail establishments and lifestyle-related services must require their employees to do SafeEntry 
check-in. They must transit to TraceTogether-only SafeEntry when this is implemented from 17 May 2021.Page 4 of 16
8.3.2. From 17 May 2021, TraceTogether-only SafeEntry will be implemented 
at the above establishments. Refer to Annex A for details on the 
SafeEntry implementation.
8.3.3. From 15 June 2021, retail establishments required to deploy 
SafeEntry for customers and visitors will need to provide the 
SafeEntry Gateway11 (SEGW) as an option for SafeEntry check-in.
SEGW is available as a feature within the SafeEntry (Business) App
(updated to version 1.1.0 and above) and as a physical standalone device 
(SEGW Box). These establishments may apply for a free SEGW Box12
. 
8.4. Health checks
8.4.1. All malls, large standalone stores, supermarkets and stores providing 
personal care and beauty services must conduct temperature 
screening13
, employees must check for visible symptoms14 for customers 
at entrances, and turn away those with fever and/or who appear unwell15
. 
8.5. Cleanliness and hygiene
8.5.1. All employees, customers, delivery personnel and other onsite personnel 
must put on their masks properly at all times.
8.5.2. Hand sanitisers should be made available to employees and customers 
at common touchpoints (e.g. entry/exit doors, cashiers). 
8.5.3. Product testers and samples for self-application and immediate 
consumption, e.g. perfume testers, make-up testers and unsealed food 
samples, are not allowed. Employees must also not apply the product 
sample directly on customers.
8.5.4. Retail establishments must ensure frequent cleaning and disinfection of:
• Common spaces such as counters and display shelves, where 
customers are served, as well as play areas for 
children/toddlers/infants;
• Items such as shopping trolleys/baskets and handrails, which have
high human contact; and
• Interactive hardware such as iPads, mall directories, self-checkout 
kiosks or lift buttons.
9. Retail establishments should put up clear signages to remind customers to comply with 
safe management requirements where applicable, and train and deploy service 
personnel to provide clear communication to customers on SMMs.
10. Refer to Annex B for other recommended guidelines, and Annex C on guidance for 
specific trades.
11 The SEGW enables contactless detection of both the TraceTogether App and Token, and serves as an additional 
means of SafeEntry check-in that is quicker and more seamless. It also allows users to check if their Token has 
run out of battery or is not working. 
12 Refer to go.gov.sg/gateway-overview for how to implement the SEGW and apply for a free SEGW Box. 
13 Individuals with temperatures above 38 degrees Celsius are considered as having a fever. Supermarkets and 
stores providing beauty services in malls need not conduct temperature screening and checks on visible symptoms 
for customers if the mall is already doing so. They should, however, do so if they operate outside the mall hours.
14 Notable visible symptoms to look out for include: (a) coughing; (b) sneezing; (c) breathlessness; and (d) a runny 
nose.
15 Except where the individual is entering the permitted premises to seek medical treatment for a specific symptom.Page 5 of 16
Safe Management Measures – Workplace premises16
11. To ensure COVID-safe workplaces, retail establishments should take care of their 
workers, workplaces and those who may become unwell at their workplaces, as outlined 
in MOM’s Requirements for Safe Management Measures at the Workplace. 
Enforcement of measures
12. Government agencies will be conducting inspections to check on the proper 
implementation of the SMMs. Under the COVID-19 (Temporary Measures) Act 
passed in Parliament on 7 April 2020, first-time offenders will face a fine of up to 
S$10,000, imprisonment of up to six months, or both. For subsequent offences, 
they may face a fine of up to S$20,000, imprisonment of up to twelve months, or 
both.
13. Businesses that do not implement or comply with the government’s SMMs may be 
ineligible for government grants, loans, tax rebates and other assistance, and may also 
be subject to temporary closures.
Annex A – Details of SafeEntry check-in and TraceTogether-only SafeEntry implementation
Annex B – Other recommended guidelines for customer-facing operations 
Annex C – Trade-specific Safe Management Measures for Retail Establishments and 
Lifestyle-Related Services
Issued by:
Enterprise Singapore
Housing & Development Board
Singapore Tourism Board
Urban Redevelopment Authority
Updated as of 18 May 2021
_________________________________________________________________________
16 Refers to the retail establishments’ back-of-house operations involving employees, including at offices, 
warehouses and manufacturing facilities.Page 6 of 16
ANNEX A
Details of SafeEntry check-in and TraceTogether-only SafeEntry implementation
- Before 17 May 2021, SafeEntry check-in can be done by: 
i) Scanning of the SafeEntry QR code using a QR code scanner on a smartphone;
ii) Using the SingPass App;
iii) Using the TraceTogether App;
iv) Presenting the TraceTogether Token QR code or ID card to the camera/2D scanner 
linked to SafeEntry (Business) App for scanning; or
v) Bringing the TraceTogether Token or App close to a SEGW.
- From 17 May 2021, when TraceTogether-only SafeEntry is implemented at the retail 
establishments (as listed in paragraph 8.3.1)17, SafeEntry check-in can only be done by: 
i) Scanning the SafeEntry QR code using the TraceTogether App;
ii) Presenting the TraceTogether Token QR code to the camera/2D scanner linked to 
SafeEntry (Business) App for scanning; or 
iii) Bringing the TraceTogether Token or App close to a SEGW. 
- To help ease the transition, scanning of barcodes on ID cards will be retained until 31 May 
2021. Following which, ID cards can only be used under extenuating circumstances. For 
more information, please refer to the FAQs on www.safeentry.gov.sg.
- In addition, from 15 June 2021, retail establishments required to deploy SafeEntry 
for customers and visitors will need to provide the SEGW as an option for SafeEntry 
check-in. SEGW is available as a feature within the SafeEntry (Business) App (updated 
to version 1.1.0 and above) and as a physical standalone device (SEGW Box). These 
establishments may apply for a free SEGW Box18
. 
- To prepare for the implementation of TraceTogether-only SafeEntry, the above retail 
establishments should already accept TraceTogether Tokens as a mode of 
SafeEntry check-in19. Businesses that accept ID cards for check-in will be able to accept 
Token for check-in if they are already using: i) A smartphone loaded with the SafeEntry 
(Business) App setup; ii) a laptop and scanner setup if the scanner can scan barcode and 
QR code; or iii) a SEGW App or SEGW Box. 
- For avoidance of doubt, TraceTogether Token check-in and SEGW both refer to the mode 
of check-in, while TraceTogether-only SafeEntry refers to the overall programme which 
will permit only TraceTogether modes of check-in (i.e. TraceTogether App or Token). 
- After TraceTogether-only SafeEntry is implemented from 17 May 2021: 
i) Large retail stores > 930 sqm (or 10,000 sqft) and supermarkets located within a 
TraceTogether-only SafeEntry building (e.g. malls) that have the same operating hours 
as the building will no longer be required to deploy SafeEntry check-in for customers, 
vendors and visitors. Those located within a TraceTogether-only SafeEntry building
but with longer operating hours must implement TraceTogether-only SafeEntry outside 
the building’s operating hours.
17 All retail establishments must require their employees to do SafeEntry check-in using TraceTogether-only 
SafeEntry when this is implemented from 17 May 2021. 
18 Refer to go.gov.sg/gateway-overview for how to implement the SEGW and apply for a free SEGW Box. 
19 TraceTogether Token check-in is done by premises scanning the QR codes on the TraceTogether Tokens of 
customers, vendors and visitors. Refer to https://go.gov.sg/token-scanning to find out how to implement Token 
check-in mode.Page 7 of 16
ii) Small retail stores (< 930 sqm or 10,000 sqft) that were not required to deploy 
SafeEntry for customers but have voluntarily done so, should remove their SafeEntry 
check-ins.Page 8 of 16
ANNEX B
Other recommended guidelines for customer-facing operations
A. Queue management
- Queues should not cause congestion for neighbouring establishments or at other parts 
of the mall.
B. Crowd management
- Limit groups of customers entering the store to no more than 2 persons. 
- Do not hold activities that would attract large crowds inside and outside of the retail 
establishment (e.g. celebrity appearances, aggressive shopping deals, closed-door 
members sales).
- A standard operating procedure (SOP) should be put in place to manage long queues 
and large crowds that could form inside or outside stores (e.g. where popular products
are displayed) and/or the mall.
- Encourage the use of self-checkout, and cashless or contactless payment to reduce 
contact between employees and customers. 
- Encourage customers to book appointments, for the viewing and testing of products, 
as well as for services (e.g. consultation, repairs). 
- Consider placing frequently purchased goods and necessities near the entrance or 
checkout to facilitate movement and reduce in-store dwell time.
- Operators should take additional steps to manage the capacity within common play 
areas for children/toddlers/infants (e.g. deploying an employee to man the area), 
where practicable.
C. Health checks
- All retail stores not mandated to conduct temperature screening and not located within 
malls are encouraged to do so and check for visible symptoms where practicable.
D. Cleanliness and hygiene
- Limit display and testing of products, e.g. stationery, laptops, mobile phones, etc. 
Employees to conduct product demonstrations if required. Such products should also 
be sanitised regularly.
- Where possible, place hand sanitisers in close proximity of store entrances, high-touch 
surfaces like door handles, as well as common play areas. Encourage customers to 
sanitise their hands before entering stores and/or handling products on display.
- Supermarkets and other retail establishments which provide trolleys and baskets to 
their customers are encouraged to provide disinfectant wipes for customers to clean 
the handles of such trolleys and baskets. 
- Products that customers touch frequently such as clothes, footwear, jewellery, 
accessories and optical products, should be cleaned, sanitised or sterilised frequently, 
where possible.
E. Encourage online retail, and “click & collect” for goods and delivery
- Encourage online retail and click-and-collect from store, to reduce dwell time
- Where practicable, collection and delivery from the store must be spaced out and 
contactless. 
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that delivery personnel observe at least one-metre 
spacing at all times and do not cluster together. Page 9 of 16
- Refer to the Advisory for Delivery Businesses for guidelines on delivery requirements.
F. Use of retail establishments as a third-party venue for work-related events
- If a retail outlet is used as a third-party event space, as a best practice, only one event 
should be held in the outlet at a time. If not feasible, each third-party event should be 
clearly demarcated from the others, as well as from the main consumer shopping area. 
Each area should be kept completely separate by either a solid partition (at least 1.8-
metre high, from wall to wall), or a minimum 3-metre spacing demarcated by 
continuous physical barriers (e.g. plexiglass screens, barricade tape, queue poles). 
There should be no mixing or intermingling of guests from separate events. Page 10 of 16
ANNEX C
Trade-Specific Safe Management Measures for Retail Establishments
The table below contains the trade-specific Safe Management Measures recommended for the customer-facing operations of retail 
establishments.
• Retail establishments are reminded to ensure that their employees and customers wear their masks properly at all times, except 
when eating or drinking. 
• The other measures indicated as “MUST” below are also requirements to be implemented, in addition to the measures listed in the main 
body of the advisory. 
• The remaining measures should be implemented, where practicable.
Category Customer-facing operations
Malls, Standalone stores • Allow tenants to extend queues beyond their premises and mark queue spots outside their units, in order 
to manage the crowd. However, this should not cause congestion at neighbouring stores or at other 
parts of the mall.
• Put in place Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to identify hotspots and manage large crowds and 
long queues both within and outside the malls; these may include re-directing customers to other outlets, 
breaking the queues into several sections, putting up signs that indicate length of queuing time and 
implementing queue or appointment management systems20
. 
• Food delivery personnel entering the malls for food collection must do their SafeEntry check-in and 
temperature screening. Malls are encouraged to set up dedicated lanes for these food delivery 
personnel to enter the malls or allow them to be prioritised in other ways. This is so as to better manage 
the queues and mall capacity. 
• Malls are encouraged to designate and clearly demarcate a dining area for their own employees and 
mobile workers (such as taxi and private hire car drivers, food delivery personnel and SDAs) to take their 
meals as these individuals may not have any suitable space to do so. Malls must ensure that these 
individuals consume their meals alone, keep a distance of at least one metre from any other individual 
and refrain from interacting with anyone. They must also ensure that these individuals wear their masks 
immediately after eating or drinking. SafeEntry check-in must be deployed at these designated areas.
20 While implementing the necessary SMMs, malls should ensure that the entrance and exit points remain accessible to those with disabilities.Page 11 of 16
Supermarkets, 
Convenience stores, 
Mini-marts
• Consider providing dedicated shopping hours for vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, persons with 
disabilities and pregnant women. 
• Limit groups of customers entering the store to no more than 2 persons. 
Supermarkets
• Put in place Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to identify hotspots and manage large crowds and long 
queues both within and outside the supermarkets; these may include re-directing customers to other outlets, 
breaking the queues into several sections, putting up signs that indicate length of queuing time and 
implementing queue or appointment management systems. 
Books & Stationeries • Minimise browsing time by encouraging customers to read book summaries online and reduce browsing instore. 
Department stores Department stores
• Consider establishing separate check-out / collection counters for in-store purchases, redemptions, clickand-collect and home delivery, to minimise queues.
• Put in place Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to identify hotspots and manage large crowds and long 
queues both within and outside the department stores; these may include re-directing customers to other 
outlets, breaking the queues into several sections, putting up signs that indicate length of queuing time and 
implementing queue or appointment management systems. 
Fashion 
(Apparel, Shoes, 
Jewellery, Accessories 
and Optical wear)
• Fitting rooms, seats and try-out areas should be spaced at least one metre apart and clearly demarcated.
Fitting rooms should be disinfected after each use.
• Discourage the testing and trying of products. Products tried on by customers should be sanitised where 
possible, e.g. via steaming, cleaning, leaving overnight to air, or other reasonable sanitisation methods. 
• Implement click-and-collect systems (customers can browse and purchase items online and collect them in 
stores) to reduce dwell time. 
• Encourage online purchases by having a flexible return policy.
Apparel
• Limit the number of apparels per fitting to minimise dwell time.
• Employees conducting tailoring and measuring services should wear personal protective equipment, e.g. 
masks at all times.Page 12 of 16
Jewellery, Watches, Accessories
• Establishments offering piercing services MUST ensure that all tools are thoroughly disinfected before and 
after each use. 
Optical Wear 
• Equipment used for eye checks and consultations MUST be sanitised before each new customer is served.
Beauty Retail • Swatches and individually packed samples, e.g. sachets, travel-sized products and gifts with purchase, may 
be distributed to customers upon request/completion of purchase.
Note: For services on makeovers and trial facials, refer to the section on Beauty Services below.
Pharmacy, 
Traditional Chinese 
Medicine (TCM),
Health Supplement 
Retail
• Consider providing dedicated shopping hours for vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, persons with 
disabilities and pregnant women. 
Pharmacy
• Encourage customers to opt for teleconsultation services and to book appointments with pharmacists, where 
available.
TCM and Health Supplement Retail
• Health drink/product sampling MUST NOT be allowed.
• Allow customers to arrange for pickup and/or delivery for replenishment of medication and/or supplements,
or opt for teleconsultation services.
• Consider breaking bulk and pre-packing items, e.g. dried goods and herbs into sealed packets with fixed 
sizes, to minimise handling of products by customers. Page 13 of 16
Trade-Specific Safe Management Measures for Lifestyle-Related Services
The table below contains the trade-specific Safe Management Measures recommended for customer-facing operations of lifestyle-related 
services.
• Retail establishments are reminded to ensure that their employees and customers put on their masks properly at all times, 
except when eating or drinking.
• The other measures indicated as “MUST” are also requirements to be implemented, on top of measures listed in the main body of the 
advisory.
• The remaining measures should be implemented, where practicable.
Category Customer-facing operations
Beauty Services 
(Spa and Wellness, Hair 
and Make-up, Nail 
Services, etc.)
Services and activities that require customers to remove their masks must cease from 16 May through 
13 June 2021. 
• All facial treatments/therapies, saunas and make-up services are NOT ALLOWED within this period of 
tightened measures.
• For other services, masks MUST be worn by customers and employees at all times.
• Employees MUST sanitise their hands before and after each customer’s treatment.
• All operators MUST disinfect all tools and workstations before and after each service. 
• To avoid overcrowding, customers MUST NOT enter the premises until 10 minutes prior to the start of their 
appointment session. While within the premises, customers should refrain from mingling with other 
customers or employees. 
• All operators MUST NOT serve food and drinks to customers, and should remove shared items such as 
magazines and newspapers.
• Employees should wear appropriate protective gear, where practicable. 
• Encourage appointment bookings, implement queue management and booking system (e.g. digital booking 
systems or calling customers) to stagger customer appointments.
• Ensure good ventilation in the premises, where practicable.
• Assign one therapist to follow-through all treatments with the same customer, where practicable.
Spa and Wellness
• All clothing, towels and bedding MUST be changed after use by every customer.Page 14 of 16
• All equipment MUST be cleaned and sanitised after use by every customer. Allow sufficient time within 
operating hours for thorough cleaning.
• Establish a schedule to disinfect common areas and high-touch points regularly (e.g. waiting areas, checkout counters).
• Encourage customers to sanitise hands before and after every service.
• When tools are used to apply beauty products on customers, employees should not dip the same tools more 
than once into beauty product containers without sanitisation. Single-use massage oil, creams and beauty 
products are encouraged to prevent cross-contamination. 
Note: Massage Establishments should refer to the Singapore Police Force’s Advisory on Safe Management 
Measures for Massage Establishment Outlets.
Hairdressing Services
• All capes and towels MUST be changed after every service. 
• All hairdressing equipment, e.g. scissors, combs, brushes, MUST be disinfected and sanitised after use by 
each customer. 
Nail Services
• Tools such as nail files, emery boards, buffers and other disposables MUST be disinfected or replaced after 
each use.
• Employees MUST remove their aprons before going for breaks, meals, etc. Aprons MUST be sprayed with 
disinfectant daily and kept clean.
• Manicure stations – MUST cover common contact areas, such as hand-rests, with a towel or disposable 
covers, and replace them after each customer.
• Pedicure stations – MUST disinfect foot basin and wipe down the pedicure chair after each customer.
• Use alternate workspace stations to ensure a safe distance of at least one metre between customers.
Financial Services 
(Licensed 
moneylenders, Money 
changers, Pawnbrokers,
Remittance services)
• Encourage customers to sanitise hands before and after handling currency notes and coins.
Licensed Moneylenders
• Encourage the use of digital payments and/or online transfers.
• Encourage customers to book appointments.
• Consider allowing online submission of documents for credit verification.Page 15 of 16
Money Changers
• Encourage employees to practise good hand hygiene, e.g. by using hand sanitiser after handling cash, and 
avoid touching the face with their hands.
Pawnbrokers
• Encourage the use of digital payments and/or online transfers.
• Encourage customers to book appointments.
Remittance services
• Encourage customers to book appointments.
• Consider implementing e-services (website/app) to facilitate online remittance.
Commercial Family 
Entertainment Centres 
(Indoor Kids’ 
Playgrounds, 
Recreation and Leisure 
Centres)21
• Operators MUST conduct temperature screening and checks on visible symptoms for customers at 
entrances, and turn away those with fever and/or who appear unwell. 
• From 16 May through 13 June 2021, operating capacity MUST be kept to a maximum of one person per 
16 sqm of usable space or 25% operating capacity, whichever is lower22, instead of one person per 10
sqm of usable space or 50% operating capacity.
• Commercial Family Entertainment Centres with > 930 sqm (or 10,000 sqft) of Gross Floor Area can review 
operating capacity by referring to SMMs for Attractions released by STB, and submit refreshed proposals to 
enquiry@enterprisesg.gov.sg
• Please refer to the Assessment Checklist: Requirements for Re-opening Proposal for the list of operational 
areas to be addressed and measures required for each area.
• Groups of customers, including those participating in any organised group activities, MUST be limited to 2 or 
fewer persons, with at least one-metre spacing between tables or groups.
• To reduce crowding, operators should:
o Encourage guests/participants to book appointments in advance;
o Implement a queue management system for entry into premises and between activity stations with 
clear demarcations for one-metre spacing among customers.
• Consider having employees and guests/participants wear disposable gowns, gloves and socks within 
premises, where practicable.
• Place hand sanitisers near frequently touched surfaces such as grab-bars.
21 Indoor attractions in touch with STB should continue to liaise with STB on the latest SMM guidelines.
22 Facilities below 50 sqm can admit up to 3 persons. This does not include employees.Page 16 of 16
• Regularly clean and disinfect high-touch/interactive equipment and components within the premises. 
• Ensure that each activity station is manned and supervised by an employee, where practicable.
Unmanned Massage 
Chairs, Claw Machines, 
Photobooths, Kiddy 
Rides
• While using these facilities, customers MUST be at least one metre apart.
• Operators MUST clean and disinfect the massage chairs or machines frequently and between peak periods 
of usage, and at the end of the day, even if the facilities have self-disinfecting coatings. 
• Display signages to guide customers on safe distancing measures while using the facilities.
• Provide hand sanitisers for customers to use before and after their sessions.
Pet Grooming Refer to Operational Guidelines for Pet Establishments Providing Pet Grooming Services and Animal 
Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Services (NPARKS) for more details. 
Preschools and Early 
Intervention Centres
Refer to Phased Reopening of Preschools and Early Intervention Centres from 2 June 2020 (ECDA) for more 
details.
Sport and Physical 
Exercise / Activities 
(Gyms & Fitness 
Centres)
Refer to Sport Singapore’s media releases for updates. 
Traditional Chinese 
Medicine (TCM) Clinics
Refer to General Advisory on Good Clinical Practice and Control for TCM Practice (2020) (MOH / Traditional 
Chinese Medicine Practitioners Board) for more details.
Tuition and Enrichment 
Centres, Childcare 
Centres
Refer to Press Releases (MOE) for updates